README.md, before:

*SuperGSL* is a reimplementation of the Genome Specification Language written in python.

SuperGSL is inspired by the original Genome Specification Language (See: [Paper](https://pubs.acs.org/doi/abs/10.1021/acssynbio.5b00194) & [Code](https://github.com/Amyris/GslCore)) written by Erin Wilson, Darren Platt and many others at Amyris. 

I'm refering to the original GSL as *fGSL* (original gsl is written in F#).

### New Features in SuperGSL

#### Explicit Imports

In *fGSL* you specify the refgenome pragma so that the compiler knows where to find genes and what their sequences are.

```
#refgenome S288C
uHO ; pADH1 ; gERG10[1:728] ; ### ; dHO
```
In contrast, in superGSL the import statement allows you to bring in genomes of organisms:

```
from S288C import ADH1, ERG10, HO

uHO ; pADH1 ; gERG10[1:728] ; ### ; dHO
```


#### Part Providers

Use the `supergsl-config.json` file to define many part providers to import parts from local files or remote services such as [synbiohub](https://synbiohub.org/) or your companies private repository.

```
{
    "part_providers": [
        {
            "name": "genebank.S288C",
            "provider_class": "supergsl.plugins.file_part.GenbankFilePartProvider",
            "sequence_file_path": "examples/GCF_000146045.2_R64_genomic.gbff.gz"
        }, {
            "name": "tab.S288C",
            "provider_class": "supergsl.plugins.file_part.FeatureTableWithFastaPartProvider",
            "fasta_file_path": "examples/S288C/S288C.fsa",
            "feature_file_path": "examples/S288C/S288C_features.tab"
        }
    ]
}
```


#### Part Slicing and Hierarchial Parts

In SuperGSL, parts can be sliced to return subsequences of supplied genetic parts.

Classic *fGSL* Slice Syntax:

`<prefix>PARTNAME[<slice>]`
1. Use the <prefix> to determine the part type slice, for example `pGAL1`.
2. Use the <slice> to determine the sub-region of the part type for example pGAL1[1:300] will
    return the first 300 bp of the promoter region.


Hierarchical Part Syntax

```
PARTNAME[<subcomponent>]
PARTNAME[<subcomponent>]
```

Use the bracket notation to access child parts. This syntax supports infinite child components, though in practice
more than one or two is likely to rather confusing.

```
PARTNAME[<subcomponent>][<child-of-subcomponent]
```

You cannot utilize *fGSL* part prefix with hierarchical parts, but you can prepend `.promoter`, `.terminator`, etc
to access these regions based on standard GSL semantics. i.e `promoter` stands for first 500 bp by default or is
overriden by PROMOTER_LENGTH setting.

```
PARTNAME[<subcomponent>].promoter
```
  



### Inspiring Links

https://blog.usejournal.com/writing-your-own-programming-language-and-compiler-with-python-a468970ae6df

Commit message:

Tweaked Dockerfile and improved documentation Readme. Also tasks.py for invoke usage.

README.md, after:

*SuperGSL* is a reimplementation of the Genome Specification Language written in python.

SuperGSL is inspired by the original Genome Specification Language (See: [Paper](https://pubs.acs.org/doi/abs/10.1021/acssynbio.5b00194) & [Code](https://github.com/Amyris/GslCore)) written by Erin Wilson, Darren Platt and many others at Amyris.

I'm refering to the original GSL as *fGSL* (original gsl is written in F#).

### New Features in SuperGSL

#### Explicit Imports

In *fGSL* you specify the refgenome pragma so that the compiler knows where to find genes and what their sequences are.

```
#refgenome S288C
uHO ; pADH1 ; gERG10[1:728] ; ### ; dHO
```
In contrast, in superGSL the import statement allows you to bring in genomes of organisms:

```
from S288C import ADH1, ERG10, HO

uHO ; pADH1 ; gERG10[1:728] ; ### ; dHO
```


#### Part Providers

Use the `supergsl-config.json` file to define many part providers to import parts from local files or remote services such as [synbiohub](https://synbiohub.org/) or your companies private repository.

```
{
    "part_providers": [
        {
            "name": "genebank.S288C",
            "provider_class": "supergsl.plugins.file_part.GenbankFilePartProvider",
            "sequence_file_path": "examples/GCF_000146045.2_R64_genomic.gbff.gz"
        }, {
            "name": "tab.S288C",
            "provider_class": "supergsl.plugins.file_part.FeatureTableWithFastaPartProvider",
            "fasta_file_path": "examples/S288C/S288C.fsa",
            "feature_file_path": "examples/S288C/S288C_features.tab"
        }
    ]
}
```


#### Part Slicing and Hierarchial Parts

In SuperGSL, parts can be sliced to return subsequences of supplied genetic parts.

Classic *fGSL* Slice Syntax:

`<prefix>PARTNAME[<slice>]`
1. Use the <prefix> to determine the part type slice, for example `pGAL1`.
2. Use the <slice> to determine the sub-region of the part type for example pGAL1[1:300] will
    return the first 300 bp of the promoter region.


Hierarchical Part Syntax

```
PARTNAME[<subcomponent>]
PARTNAME[<subcomponent>]
```

Use the bracket notation to access child parts. This syntax supports infinite child components, though in practice
more than one or two is likely to rather confusing.

```
PARTNAME[<subcomponent>][<child-of-subcomponent]
```

You cannot utilize *fGSL* part prefix with hierarchical parts, but you can prepend `.promoter`, `.terminator`, etc
to access these regions based on standard GSL semantics. i.e `promoter` stands for first 500 bp by default or is
overriden by PROMOTER_LENGTH setting.

```
PARTNAME[<subcomponent>].promoter
```


### Install & Running *SuperGSL*

*SuperGSL* comes with a Dockerfile and docker-compose file such that you can run superGSL without polluting your local environment. If for some reason you don't want to use Docker feel free to install the python dependencies specified in requirements.txt and then execute the ./sqsl python script.

Using docker you can do the following:

To run tests and mypy type validations:

```
docker-compose run supergsl test
```

To run the compiler (Note: This sort of doesn't work right now because you would somehow need to get the input file into the docker container, but is useful to me for testing):
```
docker-compose run supergsl sgsl <input-file>
```


### Inspiring Links

https://blog.usejournal.com/writing-your-own-programming-language-and-compiler-with-python-a468970ae6df
